docs(admin-server): admin api + websockets + json rpc (#474)
calimero-network/core: crates/server/README.md

 - Identity information
 - Root keys
 - Client keys
 - Installed applications
 - Started contexts

**Data Querying**: The Admin API allows the Admin Dashboard to fetch important data from the node, such as identity details, root and client keys, and information about installed and active applications.

**Application Management**: The API provides functionalities for managing applications and contexts, allowing for the installation and uninstallation of applications and starting contexts.

**Key Management**: Administrators can manage root and client keys through the API, ensuring secure access and control over the node.

**Authentication**: The Admin API facilitates user authentication via selected wallets, currently supporting MetaMask and NEAR networks. Authentication details will be explained in later sections.

**Integration with Web Applications**: The authentication mechanism is also used by web applications designed for applications (loaded wasm) in participating context, ensuring secure and authenticated access.

### 2. JSON rpc

> The JSON-RPC component of the Node Server facilitates communication between the clients and the application binaries (contexts) running on node. This allows seamless interaction and data management for applications.

Reviewer: `application binaries (contexts)` - context is more that just application binary

`communication between the clients and the context. `

Author: Updated

WebSocket handlers are essential for managing real-time subscriptions within the Node Server. They allow clients to dynamically subscribe to and unsubscribe from updates about various application contexts.

#### Subscription Handling:

Websocket handles requests to subscribe to specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the subscribed context IDs.

#### Unsubscription Handling:

Websocket handle requests to unsubscribe from specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the unsubscribed context IDs.

## Admin API endpoints

The Admin API endpoints are split into protected and unprotected routes, where protected routes require authentication.

**Base path**: `/admin-api`

### Protected Routes

These routes require authentication using auth headers.
Auth headers are generated using `createAuthHeader` function from the `calimero sdk` library.

Parts of the Auth Headers
 1. `wallet_type`: Specifies the type of wallet used (e.g., NEAR).
 2. `signing_key`: Encoded public key used for signing the request.
 3. `signature`: Encoded signature generated from the payload hash.
 4. `challenge`: Encoded hash of the payload, serving as a challenge.

>  5. `context_id`: Optional context identifier for additional request context.

Reviewer: It is optional only for admin dashboard right? For all other apps it is mandatory

> # Calimero Server

Reviewer: Let's not use `Calimero Server` as it indicates that the company exposed some central server.

Call it `Node Server` until we define a better name.

Author: Updated

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Admin API](#1admin-api)
    - [JSON rpc](#2json-rpc)
    - [Websocket](#3websocket)
- [Calimero Server Workflows](#calimero-server-workflows)
    - [Admin API Workflow](#workflow-for-admin-dashboard)
    - [JSON rpc Workflow](#workflow-for-p2p-web-applications-and-json-rpc)
    - [Websocket Workflow](#workflow-for-p2p-web-application-and-websocket)
- [Admin API endpoints](#admin-api-endpoints)
    - [Protected Routes](#protected-routes)
    - [Unprotected Routes](#unprotected-routes)
- [JSON rpc endpoints](#json-rpc-endpoints)
- [Websocket endpoints](#websocket-endpoints)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Introduction

> The Calimero Server is a server component of the Calimero Node that has crucial part in

Reviewer: Node server is a component in Node that facilitates node administration and enables communication with the logic of application (loaded wasm) in participating contexts.

managing the Calimero Admin Dashboard and the P2P Applications built for Calimero Nodes.

Calimero Server component is split into 3 parts:

### 1. Admin API

> The Admin API component of the Calimero Server connects web applications with the node and its functionalities. It is primarily utilized by the Admin Dashboard to query and manage various aspects of the node, including:

Reviewer: Doesn't need to be a web application. It exposes API which can be consumed

Author: Updated

**Application Management**: The API provides functionalities to install new applications and start contexts. This enables administrators to dynamically manage the software running on the node.

**Key Management**: Administrators can manage root and client keys through the API, ensuring secure access and control over the node.

**Authentication**: The Admin API facilitates user authentication via selected wallets, currently supporting MetaMask and NEAR networks. Authentication details will be explained in later sections.

**Integration with Web Applications**: The authentication mechanism is also used by web applications designed to interact with P2P applications installed on the node, ensuring secure and authenticated access.

### 2. JSON rpc

The JSON-RPC component of the Calimero Server facilitates communication between the front-end web applications of P2P systems and the application binaries (contexts) running on Calimero nodes. This allows seamless interaction and data management for applications.

The JSON-RPC interface provides two primary methods:

- Query
- Mutate

#### Query Method

> The `Query` method retrieves data from the applications running on the Calimero nodes. For instance, in the Only Peers forum application, posts and comments stored in the application's storage can be queried using the JSON-RPC interface. This enables users to fetch and display content from the forum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Query` method retrieves data from the applications running on the node. For instance, in the Only Peers forum application, posts and comments stored in the application's storage can be queried using the JSON-RPC interface. This enables users to fetch and display content from the forum.
```

Author: Updated

#### Mutate Method
The `Mutate` method allows modification of the application's data. For example, in the Only Peers forum application, users can create new posts or comments. The Mutate method updates the application's storage with these new entries, facilitating dynamic content creation and interaction within the application.

> The JSON-RPC component is crucial for enabling interactive and real-time data management between P2P application front-ends and the back-end contexts running on Calimero nodes.

Reviewer: `real-time data management` is enabled with functionality below

Author: Removed

> The JSON-RPC component is crucial for enabling interactive and real-time data management between P2P application front-ends and the back-end contexts running on Calimero nodes.

Reviewer: `front-ends and the back-end contexts` <- we don't have front-ends and back-end contexts.

### 3. Websocket

> The WebSocket is used for subscribing to and unsubscribing from certain contexts within the Calimero server. Defined handlers manage subscription states for WebSocket connections, allowing clients to receive updates about specific contexts they are interested in.

Reviewer: Above JSON-RPC enables interaction with the application, and here WebSocket enable interaction with the context.

WebSocket handlers are essential for managing real-time, context-specific subscriptions within the Calimero server. They allow clients to dynamically subscribe to and unsubscribe from updates about various application contexts, enhancing the interactivity and responsiveness of the P2P application.

#### Subscription Handling:

Websocket handles requests to subscribe to specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the subscribed context IDs.

#### Unsubscription Handling:

Websocket handle requests to unsubscribe from specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the unsubscribed context IDs.

## Calimero Server Workflows

### Workflow for Admin Dashboard

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Admin Dashboard] -->|HTTP Requests| B[Admin API]
    B -->|HTTP Responses| A

>     B -->|Node Communication| D[Node]

Reviewer: Basic Client -> Server communication. 

Node acts as backend implementation. Not sure this graph is needed.

Author: Removed graphs

    D -->|Response| B

    subgraph Server
        B
    end
```

> ### Workflow for P2P Web applications and JSON rpc

Reviewer: Not really useful imo as there is no clear order of actions. Use a sequence diagram for this kind of graphs

Author: Added sequence diagrams for all. Do we also need workflow for admin dashboard actions?

Reviewer: It is good for now.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[P2P Web Application] -->|HTTP Auth Request| B[Admin API]
    B -->|Auth Response| A
    A -->|JSON-RPC Query/Mutate| C[JSON rpc]
    C -->|Query/Mutate| D[Node]
    D -->|Response| C
    C -->|Response| A

    subgraph Server
        B
        C
    end
```

### Workflow for P2P Web application and Websocket
```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Admin Dashboard] -->|HTTP Subscribe/Unsubscribe Requests| B[Websocket]
    B -->|HTTP Websocket Responses| A
    B -->|Subscribe / Unsubscribe| D[Node]
    D -->|Response| B

    subgraph Server
        B
    end
```

## Admin API endpoints

The Admin API endpoints are split into protected and unprotected routes, where protected routes require authentication.

**Base path**: `/admin-api`

### Protected Routes

> These routes require authentication and are protected by the AuthSignatureLayer.

Reviewer: `AuthSignatureLayer` is not common for people to know what it is. 

`These routes require authentication using auth headers`. Then describe how it looks like and how to generate one.

Author: Updated and added explanations for auth headers

 - **Path**: `/did`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Fetches the DID (Decentralized Identifier) of the node.

**5. Create Context**
 - **Path**: `/contexts`
 - **Method**: `POST`
 - **Description**: Creates a new context.

**6. Delete Context**
 - **Path**: `/contexts/:context_id`
 - **Method**: `DELETE`
 - **Description**: Deletes a specific context by ID.

**7. Get Context**
 - **Path**: `/contexts/:context_id`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Retrieves details of a specific context by ID.

**8. Get Context Users**
 - **Path**: `/contexts/:context_id/users`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Lists users associated with a specific context.

**9. Get Context Client Keys**
 - **Path**: `/contexts/:context_id/client-keys`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Lists client keys for a specific context.

**10. Get Context Storage**
 - **Path**: `/contexts/:context_id/storage`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Retrieves storage information for a specific context.

**11. List Contexts**
 - **Path**: `/contexts`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Lists all contexts.

**12. Delete Auth Keys**
 - **Path**: `/identity/keys`
 - **Method**: `DELETE`

>  - **Description**: Deletes authentication keys.

Reviewer: `Deletes all root and client keys`

Author: Updated

 

### Unprotected Routes
These routes do not require authentication.

**1. Health Check**
 - **Path**: `/health`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Checks the health of the API.

**2. Request Challenge**
 - **Path**: `/request-challenge`
 - **Method**: `POST`
 - **Description**: Requests a challenge for authentication.

**3. Add Client Key**
 - **Path**: `/add-client-key`
 - **Method**: `POST`
 - **Description**: Adds a new client key.

**4. Install Dev Application**
 - **Path**: `/dev/install-application`
 - **Method**: `POST`
 - **Description**: Installs a development application.

**5. Manage Dev Contexts**
 - **Path**: `/dev/contexts`
 - Methods: `GET`, `POST`
 - **Description**: Lists (`GET`) and creates (`POST`) development contexts.

**6. List Dev Applications**

 - **Path**: `/dev/applications`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Lists all development applications.

## JSON rpc endpoints

> The JSON-RPC server endpoints are structured to handle various request types and are configured based on a JSON-RPC configuration that determines if the server is enabled

Reviewer: Do we have more than one endpoint?

Author: Updated to "endpoint" as it has only 1 endpoint that parses requests later in the code

> The JSON-RPC server endpoints are structured to handle various request types and are configured based on a JSON-RPC configuration that determines if the server is enabled

Reviewer: `are configured based on a JSON-RPC configuration that determines if the server is enabled` - I don't get this

Author: Removed this part

**Base path**: `/jsonrpc`

**1. Handle JSON-RPC Request**

- **Path**: `/jsonrpc`
- **Method**: `POST`

> - **Description**: Handles incoming JSON-RPC requests, which can be `query` or `mutate` requests, processes them, and returns the appropriate response.

Reviewer: Explain what are query and mutate requests. People not familiar with GraphQL wouldn't understand it

## Websocket endpoints

The WebSocket, accessible at /ws, allows clients to dynamically subscribe to and unsubscribe from real-time updates about specific contexts within the Calimero Server.

**1. Handle WebSocket Request**

 - **Path**: `/ws`
 - **Method**: `GET`
 - **Description**: Handles incoming WebSocket requests, which can be subscribe or unsubscribe requests, processes them, and returns the appropriate response.

## Examples

> Examples of Admin Server usage can be found within the [Admin Dashboard](https://github.com/calimero-network/admin-dashboard) and the [Only Peers example](https://github.com/calimero-network/only-peers-client

Reviewer: All communication with the node should be exposed through `calimero sdk`.

Author: Updated

 - Identity information
 - Root keys
 - Client keys
 - Installed applications
 - Started contexts

**Data Querying**: The Admin API allows the Admin Dashboard to fetch important data from the node, such as identity details, root and client keys, and information about installed and active applications.

**Application Management**: The API provides functionalities to install new applications and start contexts. This enables administrators to dynamically manage the software running on the node.

**Key Management**: Administrators can manage root and client keys through the API, ensuring secure access and control over the node.

**Authentication**: The Admin API facilitates user authentication via selected wallets, currently supporting MetaMask and NEAR networks. Authentication details will be explained in later sections.

**Integration with Web Applications**: The authentication mechanism is also used by web applications designed to interact with P2P applications installed on the node, ensuring secure and authenticated access.

> ### 2. Admin JSON rpc

Reviewer 2: this is not admin

Author: updated

The Admin JSON-RPC component of the Calimero Admin server facilitates communication between the front-end web applications of P2P systems and the application binaries (contexts) running on Calimero nodes. This allows seamless interaction and data management for applications.

The JSON-RPC interface provides two primary methods:

- Query
- Mutate

#### Query Method
The `Query` method retrieves data from the applications running on the Calimero nodes. For instance, in the Only Peers forum application, posts and comments stored in the application's storage can be queried using the JSON-RPC interface. This enables users to fetch and display content from the forum.

#### Mutate Method
The `Mutate` method allows modification of the application's data. For example, in the Only Peers forum application, users can create new posts or comments. The Mutate method updates the application's storage with these new entries, facilitating dynamic content creation and interaction within the application.

The Admin JSON-RPC component is crucial for enabling interactive and real-time data management between P2P application front-ends and the back-end contexts running on Calimero nodes.

> ### 3. Admin Websocket

Reviewer 2: nor is this

The Admin WebSocket is used for subscribing to and unsubscribing from certain contexts within the Calimero Admin server. Defined handlers manage subscription states for WebSocket connections, allowing clients to receive updates about specific contexts they are interested in.
WebSocket handlers are essential for managing real-time, context-specific subscriptions within the Calimero Admin server. They allow clients to dynamically subscribe to and unsubscribe from updates about various application contexts, enhancing the interactivity and responsiveness of the P2P application.

#### Subscription Handling:

Websocket handles requests to subscribe to specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the subscribed context IDs.

#### Unsubscription Handling:

Websocket handle requests to unsubscribe from specific contexts and send responses back to the client with the unsubscribed context IDs.

## Calimero Admin Workflows

### Workflow for Admin Dashboard

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Admin Dashboard] -->|HTTP Requests| B[Admin API]
    B -->|HTTP Responses| A

>     B -->|Query/Mutate| C[RocksDB]

Reviewer 2: RocksDB is an implementation detail of much lower-level pieces, it shouldn't need to come up here

Author: removed

    B -->|Node Communication| D[Node]
    D -->|Response| B

    subgraph Admin Server
        B
    end
```

### Workflow for P2P Web applications and Admin JSON rpc

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[P2P Web Application] -->|HTTP Auth Request| B[Admin API]
    B -->|Auth Response| A
    A -->|JSON-RPC Query/Mutate| C[Admin JSON rpc]
    C -->|Query/Mutate| D[Node]
    D -->|Response| C
    C -->|Response| A

>     subgraph Admin Server

Reviewer 2: just `Server` will suffice

Author: updated

# Node Server

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Admin API](#1admin-api)
    - [JSON rpc](#2json-rpc)

>     - [Websocket](#3websocket)

Reviewer 2: broken links?

Author: Updated

- [Node Server Workflows](#node-server-workflows)
    - [Client Login Workflow](#client-login-workflow)
    - [JSON rpc Workflow](#json-rpc-workflow)
    - [Websocket Workflow](#websocket-workflow)
- [Admin API endpoints](#admin-api-endpoints)
    - [Protected Routes](#protected-routes)
    - [Unprotected Routes](#unprotected-routes)
- [JSON rpc endpoint](#json-rpc-endpoint)
- [Websocket endpoints](#websocket-endpoints)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Introduction

Node Server is a component in node that facilitates node administration and enables communication with the logic of an application (loaded wasm) in participating contexts.

Node Server component is split into 3 parts:
 1. [Admin API](https://github.com/calimero-network/core/blob/feat-admin_api_docs/crates/server/src/admin/service.rs)

>  2. [JSON rpc](https://github.com/calimero-network/core/blob/feat-admin_api_docs/crates/server/src/jsonrpc.rs)

Reviewer 2: Also, can we fix the casing of "RPC"

In some places, it's "rpc" in other's it's "RPC"

Author: renamed to "rpc"
